welcome to the program it's great to
have you with us Benjamin Netanyahu has
signaled that what he calls the intense
phase of Israel's military operations
against Hamas in Gaza is drawing to a
close but the Israeli Prime Minister
says the fighting won't stop until the
group no longer controls the Gaza Strip
now Israel's declared aim in the war is
to eliminate Hamas and Liberate the
Israeli hostages held by militant groups
it's an aim Israel has not achieved but
the Israeli military chief of Staff says
the structure of Hamas in the city of
Rafa is nearly dismantled Israel's
military now appears to be shifting its
focus to its northern border where
clashes with lebanon's Hezbollah militia
have been
intensifying Applause for Benjamin
Netanyahu despite the political headwind
he's facing both at home and
abroad but his message will likely
disappoint those pushing for a ceasefire
in Gaza and the Speedy return of Israeli
[Applause]
hostages if there is an agreement it
will be an agreement according to our
terms and our terms are not to end the
war to leave Gaza and Hamas as it is I
refuse to leave Hamas as it is we need
to eliminate it as fighting along
Israel's border with Lebanon heats up
the Prime Minister signaled Israel could
scale back its operation in
Gaza after the intense phas is finished
we will have the possibility to move
part of our forces
North and we will do this first and
foremost for defensive
purposes crossboard tensions have
continued to rise since the outbreak of
the war with Israel repeatedly striking
the Iran backed Hezbollah militia over
the weekend International observers have
called for restraint warning an open
conflict could trigger a wider war in
the Middle
East Israeli defense minister y Galant
is currently meeting with us officials
before leaving for Washington he told
the
press in these meetings I will discuss
developments on the Gaza front the
Lebanon front and they have a crucial
importance at this time we are prepared
for any action that may be required in
Gaza Lebanon and in other places as well
anger in Israel Over the government's
handling of the war continues to grow
over the weekend protesters rallied near
the headquarters of netanyahu's leud
party the biggest so far according to
organizers demanding the return of all
hostages and an immediate
ceasefire meanwhile civilians in Gaza
continue to get caught in the crossfire
four Palestinians including a child
among the latest victims of Israeli
shelling on Central Gaza on Monday
and we can now talk to Hans yakob
shindle he's the director of the counter
extremism project here in Berlin welcome
it's so great to have you in the studio
now Israel's stated goal going into this
war was to eliminate Hamas and Gaza and
to liberate the hostages none of that
has really happened has it so what has
this intense phase of the war as
netanyahu's calling it really achieved
well there have been some successes but
really not really any
sustained um approach of these two core
aims so of course they have killed a lot
of Hamas fighters of course they have
broken some of the tunnel system not all
of it they have definitely eliminated a
large parts of the weapons rockets and
armed storages of of Hamas but they
haven't gotten the two leaders safe Dave
and sinoa and they still have about 100
Israeli hostages in Gaza so if they
would leave now Hamas would be back
within months on unfortunately so what
it only can mean is a refocus of troops
away from the ga strip to the north but
a continuing military operation in Gaza
Strip at the lower level yeah and we
heard a military official today saying
that Israel is close to dismantling U
the Rafa Brigade now from someone who
knows this conflict very well are those
traditional military structures really
the way that Hamas functions well Hamas
had buil up military structure but it's
not like a brigade it would be in the
German army or in the US Army so it is a
organized group of Fighters and the Rafa
Brigade was really the last Brigade in
in inverted commas that Israel hadn't
tackled yet um but that doesn't mean it
this all of these Hamas fighters of
these various brigades that they've
dismantled before are either in
captivity or dead it's still a loose
connected cell network of Hamas that
really fights back on a daily basis
against Israel and a couple of weeks ago
was even able to fire rockets at Tel
Aviv again so what does it mean then
that they dismantle the Brigade then in
the north they they said they had
completed their mission in a sense now
they're popping back up again it seems
like they're playing a a very Sinister
game of whack-a-mole there how can they
how can they move forward in an
effective way and move towards achieving
that stated goal is it even possible the
way they're going about it right now
well the Israeli Army is now
encountering exactly the same challenges
that the international forces had in
Afghanistan or the American and British
forces had in Iraq is that you cannot
just clear a area of terrorist or
insurgence elements you need to hold
that area now and then afterwards you
need to administer that area and they've
been very good at the clearing of the
areas they have been partially good at
holding of the areas but since they have
a limited troop numbers they had always
had to move troops out so what of course
happened was that Hamas Fighters simply
pushed into these newly cleared areas
back into into this uh uh into these
areas which they had been before and the
Israelis had now left so this clear hold
and administer step wasn't really done
so yes they've cleared the northern Gaza
yes they've cleared now Rafa but that
doesn't mean that Hamas won't be back as
soon as they leave these areas and if
Israel has now decided that they have to
concentrate more forces in the north
because hispa has increased its attack
it playing into hamas's hands and it's
playing into hb's hands because that's
exactly what both groups want them to do
mhm this all started in response to the
October 7th Terror attacks it has
brought incredible hardship to the
people of Gaza now has Hamas lost
Support over their role in making what
is taking place in Rafa and all across
the strip uh happen and in triggering
puls are very difficult but there has
one by the Palestinian Research Center
just recently which clearly shows that
now fatak has greater support in Gaza
Strip than Hamas does but Hamas has
greater support in the West Bank than
than than uh uh uh fatak has so it has
lost support but that doesn't mean that
there would be a at this point a viable
idea of who is governing Gaza if it's
not Israeli occupied at the end of all
of this and that means there's question
who is going to be the biggest power
factor in Gaza once the Israeli Army
would completely withdraw or mostly
withdraw and at the moment still the
only viable power structure that would
very likely take over again is Hama so
we're not at the end of this at all MH I
want to look at the day after in a
second but first what do you consider to
be hamas's biggest source of power at
this point is it popular support still
is it something else no it's its
willingness to accept as many
Palestinian casualties as it takes this
was the strategy from the very beginning
to make this an extremely bloody
Conflict for the Israeli government make
the Israeli government lose
International support increase the
pressure on the Israeli government so
that they have to stop before their back
is truly broken in the Gaza Strip and
looking at today's announcement I'm
wondering whether this is not a strategy
that will in the end maybe work
out that is very interesting how could
you see it working out then in their
favor well if Israel really now starts a
major military operation in Lebanon
against hisbah and we've seen this in
2006 what kind of resource it takes
because hisbah is truly an army which
has actual brigades which has far more
Rockets far more ballistic missiles and
has developed a low-flying high-speed
drone that evades the iron Drome we
having a completely different military
scenario that we had in Gaza where it's
more an Insurgency Warfare this is an
actual conventional confrontation which
means most of the military energy will
go to the north will go to Lebanon
Lebanon will again like in 2006
experience major destruction including
in in byut because that's where hpa's
center of gravity is um but that also
means Gaza will get less attention and
then we may be back at we were at the
point where we were in October 6th which
would be a tragic outcome yeah you say
there needs to be a plan for governance
for Gaza looking at the past how have
terror groups like Hamas been taken out
effectively was it through diplomacy in
the end there were a couple of examples
were like in the Irish uh uh Republic
the IRA was brought into a peace proess
now the problem with a religious
ideology like Hamas has is there is no
political process to be had this is a
extremist organization whose ideology is
comparable to that of K it doesn't have
a global plan at this point but
certainly wants to have a Islamic State
in Gaza so there is no negotiation you
can have with someone who has a
religious ideology the other uh ability
to dry out Terror organizations is
simply by providing governance that is
taking away the social support and in
this case it could only be Palestinian
governance but the PNA is very
historically weak at this point so that
doesn't seem like a viable option only
remaining option is then International
control the Arab Union or the UN getting
control over the Gaza Strip and managing
until a newly established Palestinian
Authority could take over H yakob
Shindler thank you so much thank
you German foreign minister analena
babok has repeated her calls for a
two-state solution during a visit to
Israel her eth since the beginning of
the war in a policy speech she focused
on the war in Gaza as well as the
worsening humanitarian crisis in the
strip while reiterating that she was a
friend of Israel the foreign minister
criticized Israel over its approach to
the war babok also spoke of the impact
the images of the war were having around
the
world these images from Gaza are
traveling the
globe sparking strong emotions in the
Arab world but also in the US in Europe
in my country
everywhere this
disbelief
sadness
anger and as a friend of
Israel I want to be
frank this anger is not helping Israel
to meet its security needs to the
contrary it only serves Hamas cynical
drive to provoke further
escalation our political editor Mika KFA
is accompanied the foreign minister on
her trip and I asked her whether bok's
words Mark a shift in Germany's position
in the
conflict no Germany is clearly not
departing from its path being close at
Israel's side having declared Israel's
security as reason of state of one of
its fundamental principles of the German
state but what analina Bok is doing here
in Tel Aviv is mapping out that being a
friend means telling your friend
that some things might be bad news she's
unusually outspoken here uh talking
about a longer lasting peace being what
Germany strives for in this friendship
and that that also means for Isel to
recognize that there is global anger as
she called it at the high number of
Civilian casualties in Gaza and that is
something that needs to be factored in
she also interestingly on a part with
the US ambassador here is calling for a
longer term plan telling Israel to
listen to Arab voices who vowed to also
help rebuild Gaza but only if there is a
path to a lasting peace as two-state
solution she also calls out very uneasy
issues like the allegations of torture
against Israel and it calls on Israel to
show that it lives up to its democratic
values and to international human rights
law she's unusually specific in her
criticism while at the same time
stressing that Germany remains at
Israel's side but clearly together with
the United States Germany wants to see
some movement not just in the Netanyahu
government but also in how Israel thinks
about its own future and its chances for
a longer lasting piece